# Contemporary Issues In Data

## Article One  
[New Database Threatens Right to Privacy in Russia](https://www.hrw.org/news/2020/05/26/new-database-threatens-right-privacy-russia)  

This article talks about how Russia has decided to create a new database that will contain personal data of the entire population of Russia, including birth certificates, passport details, marital status, any change of gender, education, residence permits abroad, employment, and taxpayers’ information. References to parents’ and children’s profiles would also be included. The database would be managed by the Federal Tax Service and other government agencies would feed into the centralized database. This policy was announced on June 8th 2020 and will incrementally begin to enter force starting January 1st in 2022. There are essentially two major takes on this new directive. The Russian government is clearly in favor and pro of this decision. According to the government this will allow every citizen of the country to have a single "ideal golden profile". The main benefit the government forsees from this policy is that it will allow the country to more effectively allocate social benefits as the database will make it extremely easy to calculate family income. Furthermore the data from the centralized database could be shared with election commissions, courts, prosecutors, and other law enforcement to ensure reliability and consistency of data countrywide. 

On the other side of the decision is the opinion of the author of the article, who is completely against the policy. According to the author this new policy has several drawbacks. Firstly, it is highly risky for all this data to be stored on a single database. If a hacker is able to breach the system they would be able to access highly sensitive records of every citizen in Russia. According to the author it is safer to store different sets of data in different databases so that even if one database is breached atleast the hacker will not have access to such a mulitutude of sensitive data. This is the decentralized, safer method.  The second drawback according to the author is concerned with data privacy laws. Russian law ‘on personal data’ prohibits merging databases collected for different purposes. It also forbids excessive collection and storage of data – meaning anything collected must be directly related to what the data will be used for. Furthermore the uniform database concept allows the government to store excessive amounts of data indefinitely as well as share it with governmental agencies without a person’s explicit consent. This new policy is violating several of Russia's data privacy laws. By creating a centralized database which will utilize and merge various diffferent databases it is clearly violating its "merging database" policy. Furthermore it is violating user data privacy laws by allowing the data to be shared by various Russian governmental authorities. 

As a newcomer to the field of databases I find this article and topic extremely interesting. For me the logic of having a centralized database seems extremely clear and the centralized database seems extremely useful. However I also do see how creating a database of this nature could make user data more susceptible to being hacked or stolen. I am also aware Russia has some sort of a black market for data and creating a new database like this would only make the matter worse. At this stage I don't think I am informed enough about the nature of data to make a decision but I think as the course progresses I will have a more informed opinion on this topic. 

## Article Two
[Hacker selling data of 538 million Weibo users](https://www.zdnet.com/article/hacker-selling-data-of-538-million-weibo-users/)

In this article we learn about the data breach that happened to China's equivalent of Twitter, Weibo. In early 2020, a hacker released the real names, site usernames, gender, location, and phone numbers (for 172 million users) of each of Weibo's 538 million users. He was then selling this data for $250 a pop. According to Weibo he managed to do this by matching contacts against its API, however details like gender and location are not available to be extracted on the API. Hence it is suspected the company's SQL database dump was somehow infriltrated. 

In my opinion this brings up three interesting points. Firstly, how big should we let social media sites really get? If the database of a company like Weibo is breached, the magnitude of damage is insurmountable. Almost 538 million user's data was leaked. The data, including the **location**, and phone numbers, of almost half of China's population was put up for sale for the affordable price of $250. Surely we must limit the amount of users on these sites to atleast try to minimize some damage. This then brings me to my second point. If social media websites like these possses such crucial information, should the government or some higher authority be in charge of protecting it? I know it sounds weird but maybe something like the Data Police would be the enforcement agency of the future? Let's say I was one of the users who was part of the breach. The fact that some complete stranger has access to my phone number and location extremely scares me. Furthermore the fact that it is just out there on the internet and available to purchase at such a cheap price scares me even more. 

My third point then ties in with all of this. To what extent do we hold these corporations responsible for our data? Weibo was not fined a single cent in its data breach. However Yahoo will pay almost $120 million in its data breach settlement. How can the data privacy laws be so different in different countries. Does the privacy of data of a user in one country matter more that the privacy of data of a user in another country? Another thing I was thinking of was that services like Twitter and Facebook are free. We essentially use these services for free and they guard our data in good faith. How much can we really expect from something we don't pay a cent for. 

The philosophical, ethical, and economical discussions surrounding data are extremely interesting and something I would never have thought about before. I did not know the nature of data was so sensitive but reading these articles has taught me otherwise. 